Whoa.
Elinor.
I'm here, Father.
My eldest daughter,
I'm so proud of the woman
that you've come to be.
Now, if my sickness continues,
your mother and sisters
will need your strength.
I know I can count
on you, Elinor.
You must hold our
family together.
Father, I came
as soon as I could.
Oh, John.
Listen to me, my son.
The law forbids me from
dividing my estate.
To include your
sisters and stepmother,
my fortune will be left
entirely in your hands.
Father, don't
worry about that now.
I do worry.
And you must promise me, John.
You must promise me
that you will see
that they are taken care of.
That is my wish.
I promise, Father.
I promise.
The promise?
Yes, the promise.
3,000 pounds.
Are you mad?
1,000 for each of the girls.
Barrister assured me
it was a fair amount.
Is it not enough?
Not enough?
It's far too much.
Even if you gave them half as
much, no other man on Earth
would be half so generous
to his half-sisters.
So 1,500, then?
1,500 would be perfect,
if it is your intent to rob
us of our rightful inheritance.
Fanny, it is their
rightful inheritance too.
Yet the law says differently.
But I promised Father.
John, regardless of who
promised what to whom and when,
the estate is yours to
do with as you see fit.
The new master and mistress
of Norland Park have arrived.
We are now guests
in our own home.
I don't understand
why we have to leave.
John and Fanny already
have a house in London.
Yes.
One must assume taking what's
ours gives them great pleasure.
Stop it.
Our brother is a good man.
John will honor father's wishes.
He'll certainly allow
us the time we need
to find a suitable new home.
Hold.
Mary and my dear sisters.
John.
I trust you had a
pleasant journey.
Yes, thank you.
And thank you for
the warm welcome.
I hope to make this
transition as easy as pos--
Norland Park, how I've
dreamed of this day.
John, I was hoping
we could discuss
your plans for the estate.
Oh, yes.
Yes, of course, all
things in good time.
But first, I-- I do have
to check in on Fanny.
Excuse me.
Hello.
I'm Edward Ferrars.
You must be Miss Dashwood.
I am.
Welcome to Norland Park.
Your sister will be happy
to hear you arrived safely.
Stepsister.
And yes, Fanny is widely
known through the land for
her deep concern for others.
Shall I take you to the house?
I do hope that Fanny has been
treating you with civility.
It shames me to say, but
Fanny takes after our mother.
Stop.
You shall not pass.
Margaret.
Good sir knight, I assure you
my intentions are honorable.
I'm not a knight.
I'm a pirate.
Pirate?
Oh, no.
In that case, I hereby
surrender my vessel.
Not good enough.
Oh, ooohh.
Oooh.
As
beautiful as Norland is,
it requires many repairs.
I'm frankly surprised
at the state of it.
Yes, quite right.
It'll be very expensive.
Money will be much
tighter than we imagined.
My dear Fanny, Norland
Park is a country manor.
Too many changes
would ruin its charm.
There is beauty in
its flaws, isn't there?
I think Father--
So, Mr. Ferrars, tell us.
How long are you to
stay at Norland Park?
That depends entirely on the
hospitality of Mrs. Dashwood.
You may stay--
I should think a month.
Well, I would like to stay for
a month or so, perhaps longer.
Mother.
None of these will do.
They're all far too expensive.
But surely once
John distributes
our share of the estate--
You can't truly
still believe John
intends to honor his promise.
But he said.
We all heard him.
Mother, it's been months
since Father passed.
And the most John has promised
is the occasional gift
of fish and game.
And if we count on even that,
we'll all go hungry, won't we?
But there is good news.
I've been reaching
out to family.
You haven't.
How embarrassing.
Yes.
Well, I've received a
response from your father's
cousin, Sir John Middleton
of Barton Park in Devonshire.
Who?
I've never met any Sir
John of Barton Park.
None of us have,
but he is family.
It seems his wife
recently passed,
and he's sympathetic
to our situation.
He has a cottage he will rent
us at a very affordable price.
A cottage?
We're to go from Norland
Park to a cottage.
Mother.
Very well.
I, for one,
don't care where we
go as long as we're
far away from John
and his horrible wife.
I apologize for
the interruption,
but I was hoping to get better
acquainted with Norland's
beautiful gardens.
And I was hoping for a guide.
Devonshire is beautiful country.
I actually spent some time
there during my schooling years.
Oh.
Well, if you're ever
feeling nostalgic,
you always have an open
invitation to stay with us,
if it suits you, of course.
It would be my honor.
My mother and I have great
expectations for Edward.
I'm sure.
My mother has
made it plain that she would
withdraw all his
inheritance should he choose
to marry someone unworthy.
It falls to me to make sure
that both Edward and Robert
marry the right kind of woman.
You understand, don't you?
I understand you perfectly.
We're grateful for
the hospitality you've
shown during our time of need.
Rest assured, we will be leaving
Norland Park within the week.
Edward, do you
promise you'll visit?
You have my word.
Uh-- it has been a true pleasure
making your acquaintance,
Miss Dashwood.
And you as well, Mr. Ferrars.
I want you to know that I'm--
that I'm-- I'm not very
good at this sort of thing.
I wish that I could
accompany you on your travels
and offer whatever
help I'm able.
But-- but the fact
is there are--
Obligations?
Complications.
Yes.
Well, life is nothing
if not complicated.
I shall visit you.
And in the meantime, I
want you to have this.
It's for your sketches.
Thank you.
I look forward to
filling these pages.
And I to seeing them filled.
Goodbye, Miss Dashwood.
It's not fair.
What kind of law would deprive
us of our rightful inheritance?
The world can
be a harsh place.
It may only be temporary,
for you at least.
Don't look at me like that.
I'm talking about Edward.
Your affection for one
another was obvious.
Mother is convinced
you will wed.
I'm certain there's no--
Do you love him?
Marianne.
Elinor, do you love him?
I-- I think very highly
of him, greatly esteem him.
Esteem him?
Like him?
- Shhhh.
Cold-hearted
Elinor, shall I throw
you from this
carriage to get you
to admit you feel something?
You're going to
wake Mother and Meg.
Don't you wish to be in love?
For you, Marianne, the
wish is to hope, and to hope
is to expect.
I think it best not to get
my hopes, expectations up.
It's very--
Small?
Cozy?
The Dashwood women arrive.
Sir John Middleton I presume.
You presume correctly.
Lovely to finally make
your acquaintance.
Welcome to Devonshire.
Sir John, we must thank you.
No, no, no, no, no.
No thanks necessary.
You do me a favor by moving in.
It gave me the excuse I
needed to clean this place up.
Well, at least
accept our condolences
on your wife's passing.
And
mine on your husband's.
He was a wonderful man.
And yes, Lady Middleton
left us far too soon.
The worst of it was she left
me alone with my mother-in-law.
And I jest.
I jest.
Mrs. Jennings is a
delightful woman.
Well, perhaps delightful
is overstating it.
She's not at all
unpleasant, mostly.
Anyway, you'll see for
yourself tonight when you
come to dine at Barton Park.
In fact, I insist you
dine with us every night
until you're fully settled in.
And to that end, my servant
Thomas will be assisting
you with your every need.
That's gracious of you.
Are you sure you can spare--
Of course I can.
Thomas is a mediocre
servant at best.
I'm sure he won't be missed.
Now, I'll get out of your
way and let you unpack.
I'll send a carriage down
to collect you this evening.
Ta-ta.
Well, he's certainly--
Look, Marianne, a pianoforte.
Look what we've
been reduced to.
Mother, stop.
We have a lovely new home.
We're very fortunate.
I was mistress
of Norland Park.
What am I now?
This world is so cruel.
There is kindness in
it, like your cousin.
He's a lovely man, and he seems
genuinely happy to have us
here, doesn't he?
But we have no carriage,
no land of our own,
and no money for your dowry.
We have nothing.
We have each other.
Dinner was wonderful.
I send my compliments
to the chef.
Oh, I am so glad
you enjoyed it.
We must talk suitors.
I know every eligible
bachelor in the county,
and Elinor and Marianne
will meet them all
and take their pick.
It's so lovely having
you at Barton Park.
Sir John can be such a bore.
I'm the bore, the way
you always prattle on?
Prattle?
I don't prattle.
You don't think I
prattle, do you, dear?
Oh, Brandon.
There you are.
I'm afraid you've
missed dinner, old chap.
My deepest apologies.
I'm afraid--
No, no, no.
No, not at all.
The roast was
rather dry, in fact.
But as you can see, we have
company to provide a feast
for the eyes, ears, and soul.
Mrs. Dashwood, Miss Dashwood,
Margaret, Dashwood, Marianne
Dashwood, allow me to present
Colonel Brandon, an old friend
and military hero.
We served together in the
East Indies, you know.
It's a pleasure
to meet you all.
You play beautifully.
Thank you.
Do you live nearby, Colonel?
Quite but not near enough, it
seems, to be on time for dinner
apparently.
Again, I apologize.
Only joking, Colonel.
So serious this one
but such a gentleman.
You should see his
home, Delaford.
It's simply majestic but
could use a woman's touch.
That was a dreadful evening.
Sir John and Mrs.
Jennings talk incessantly.
Neither listened to
a single note played.
Colonel Brandon seemed
quite fond of the music
and the hands that played it.
Stop it.
Did you not find him handsome?
Did you not find
him to be pleasant?
I found him to be mature
and far too reserved for me.
What could we possibly
have in common?
Besides a love of
music, a strong interest
in you to start.
He's a military man.
I doubt he has a single
romantic bone in his body.
I could never be
with someone whose
tastes did not
coincide with mine own
in every conceivable way.
The more I come to know the
world, the more convinced
I am I'll never find
someone I could truly love.
Little young to despair
of ever finding happiness,
aren't you?
You don't understand, Elinor.
I require so much.
On that, Marianne,
we can agree.
"Thus, happiness
depends, as nature shows,
less on exterior things
than most suppose."
What's that?
William Cowper, the most
romantic poet that ever lived.
He's saying that happiness
lies in the heart and not
in material possessions.
When's Edward coming to visit?
He said he'd come as
soon as we were settled.
We've been up here for weeks.
Elinor must be upset.
Elinor doesn't get upset.
With Elinor, it's always
prudence and duty,
resignation and acceptance.
Look.
Is it Colonel Brandon?
Mrs. Jennings said he would
make a good husband for you.
Mrs. Jennings doesn't know
the first thing about me.
Let's ask him what he thinks.
Meg, don't.
Ow.
Marianne.
Marianne, are you all right?
My ankle.
Are you all right?
Don't be afraid.
I only wish to help.
May I?
Well, the good news is
it doesn't appear broken.
You've got quite the sprain.
May I escort you home?
Who are you?
I'm sorry.
Where are my manners?
John Willoughby,
at your service.
Mother, we simply cannot
afford a new chimney.
You know this.
I know no such thing.
Smoke billowing inside
the house all day,
all of us constantly beating
soot from our clothing,
is this how you really
expect us to live?
Fine.
We'll get a new chimney.
We'll just forego a few
minor things like hmm--
ah, food.
Mother.
It's Marianne.
She fell.
But the man--
What man?
Where can I--
Oh.
Here.
Marianne, are you all right?
What happened?
She's fine, just
a sprained ankle.
Who are you?
John Willoughby.
I was out hunting,
and I saw her fall.
I fear I may have given the
young ladies quite the scare.
Not at all.
Don't be silly.
Thank goodness you were there.
May I offer you some tea?
I don't want to trouble you.
I only wanted to see your
lovely daughters safely home,
and I have done that.
Although, if I may, I'd like
to come back tomorrow to check
on the patient's progress.
Is that all right?
Yes.
Yes, of course.
Then I'll away.
It's been a pleasure
meeting you,
Marianne, despite
the circumstances.
Ah, yes,
the dashing Mr. Willoughby.
He comes to Devonshire every
year to visit his aunt.
Who resides at Allenham
Court, the estate he will
one day inherit.
Is he married?
He is not.
He is unattached and stands to
become extraordinarily wealthy.
Oh, I see what's
happening here.
Poor Brandon.
It seems he's no match for
Willoughby in Marianne's eyes,
though perhaps Miss Elinor--
Elinor already has a suitor.
Margaret.
Really?
And why is this the first
that I am hearing of it?
Pray tell.
Who is the lucky young man?
I won't say his name.
Oh.
But his surname begins
with the letter F.
Ooh, mystery, is it?
I do love a good riddle.
Ooh, let's see.
F for Franklin?
Frederick?
Fiddlesticks.
I love your cottage.
It's been empty too long.
To see it occupied now and
by such wonderful women,
it does my heart good.
How long will you
be in Devonshire?
Difficult to say.
It is beautiful out here.
And Allenham Court will
one day be my home,
but sometimes I find
Devonshire a bit dull.
Oh.
Young women throwing
themselves down
hillsides just to meet you
doesn't happen every day?
It is nice to have others
of an age close to my own.
Let's see what else
we have in common.
Who's your favorite artist?
Ah, don't make
me choose just one.
Boucher.
Ooh, Panini.
I love them.
Favorite poet.
Phillis Wheatley.
"Thy various works,
imperial queen, we see."
"How bright their forms!
How deck'd with pomp by thee!"
Willoughby, welcome
back to Devonshire.
Now, how is your aunt?
Still in good health, I hope.
She is well, thank you-- on
a trip to London at present.
Good evening, everyone.
Colonel Brandon,
now that you're here,
shall we adjourn to dinner?
Come my, dear.
Allow me.
Good to see that ankle is
in good health, but let's
not test it.
Colonel Brandon,
sir, good to see you.
Mr. Willoughby.
That is beautiful.
You must give me some
pointers on how to play.
It appears Mr.
Willoughby was quite moved
by Marianne's performance.
Oh, let them have their fun.
Excuse me.
To be young again.
When
were you ever young?
I was speaking with Sir
John about a piece of land
owned by my sister's husband.
It's naught but a few
hours' ride by carriage.
We thought it might be nice
to take an excursion out
there for a picnic.
That sounds lovely, Colonel.
Do tell Marianne
that Mr. Willoughby
will also be invited.
Colonel?
My sister, she's
a true romantic,
and I love her for it.
But she lacks propriety and
I'm afraid common sense.
I must say I do look
forward to a day
where she's better
acquainted with the world.
Miss Dashwood, I once
knew someone very much
like your sister but
who, due to a series
of unfortunate circumstances--
the world can be a
very cruel place.
Do not wish for the
day that your sister
discovers that for herself.
Do you fancy her?
She's beautiful.
She's yours.
She's what?
She's yours, if that is, you
have something of equal value
to trade for her.
I'm afraid I don't have
much of value, not any more.
Well, what do you
have on you right now?
Nothing.
Just a handkerchief.
Perfect.
Anything you've ever held
will be more than enough.
Elinor, look.
Willoughby gave me the
most wonderful gift.
I think I'll call her Queen Mab.
What, the horse?
Marianne, we can't keep it.
But we have a
perfectly good stable.
What will we
feed it, Marianne?
Who will groom it?
I'm sorry.
Clearly, I did not
think this through.
My aunt always says I
can be a bit impulsive.
As well you should be.
Our impulses are never wrong.
Well, in this case, they were.
The last thing I want to do
is cause you any hardship,
but perhaps I can
offer a solution.
I will keep Queen Mab in
the stables at Allenham.
She will still be
yours, and you can come
visit her and ride her anytime.
I hope that will be quite often.
Thank you, Mr. Willoughby.
Not at all.
I do apologize for any
trouble I may have caused.
Will you be joining
us on the trip
Colonel Brandon has arranged?
Well, if the lovely
and talented Dashwood
sisters are going
to be there, I would
not miss it for the world.
Shall we go for a ride?
It's so beautiful.
My favorite horse.
Take this.
For the last time,
I do not prattle.
You do.
You do, too.
I think I'll write a letter to
Edward, inviting him to visit.
You'll do no such thing.
He's already been invited.
Elinor.
I just want for both my
daughters to be happy.
Mother, my happiness
does not depend
on the affections of another.
Doesn't hurt though.
Colonel Brandon.
I have a message for you.
I'm so sorry.
I'm afraid I can't
accompany you on the picnic.
My horse, quickly.
But it's your
brother-in-law's property.
We can't go without you.
I apologize, but
I've been called
on urgent business in London.
Come now, Brandon.
Surely, this business
is not so urgent you
can't postpone it one day.
Not one hour.
I wonder what this
urgent business could be?
I suspect I know.
A little bird told
me that the Colonel
has a certain ongoing obligation
in London, a daughter.
A daughter?
I didn't know the
Colonel had been married.
He hasn't been.
We've spoken more than
enough of the Colonel.
And although he may
have foiled our plans,
it is far too beautiful
of a day to let
it go to waste all together.
The fair Marianne
and I are going
for a ride in the countryside.
Catch us if you can.
Yah.
This, Marianne, is Allenham.
It's so beautiful.
And all of this is to be yours?
One day, yes, mine, and
God willing, my family's.
I think it would feel far
too empty without one.
Marianne, my aunt will be back
from London in a few days.
So I'll have to tend
to things around here,
preparing for her return.
But perhaps someday I could
pay a call to Barton Cottage.
There's something
I'd like to ask you.
And afterwards, I'd like
to have a conversation
with your mother.
Yes.
Yes, of course.
Why did I have to go to church
and Marianne got to stay home?
Because Marianne is pure of
heart without an ounce of sin.
No, she isn't.
Marianne had to stay
home to receive a visitor.
What visitor?
Mr. Willoughby?
Indeed.
And your sister is about
to become Mrs. Willoughby.
Marianne's getting married?
We don't know
that for certain.
I'm so glad Willoughby
came along when he did.
If things between Marianne and
Colonel Brandon had progressed,
your sister could have
ended up in a very
complicated situation.
Do you think it's true
what Mrs. Jennings
said about him, that he had
a daughter out of wedlock?
Mother.
Your daughters keep
you busy enough.
Do you really need to
worry over someone else's?
Mr. Willoughby,
what's going on?
Where's Marianne?
She's inside.
She's-- I'm afraid
she's a bit upset.
Upset?
She didn't refuse you, did she?
Mother.
No.
No, it's not-- my
aunt has decided
to exercise some
of her privileges
on her dependent nephew.
I'm leaving to
London for business.
I leave straight away.
When will you return?
I-- I'm only invited back
to Allenham once a year,
so I most likely will not
be back for some time.
But surely Sir
John could extend
an invitation once your
business is concluded.
Yes.
Well, I'm not certain
when that will be.
Things are-- that is
to say, things are--
I should not linger.
I will not torment myself
by remaining friends whose
company I can no longer enjoy.
Marianne.
Please don't cry.
Mother, let me talk to her.
What is there to say?
This would never have
happened if I was
the mistress of Norland Park.
Mother--
Marianne?
Over a week now and
still he's sent no letter.
I know, but weeping
all night and refusing
breakfast in the morning won't
make him write any sooner.
I'd be ashamed of myself if
I were able to eat or sleep.
This is what true love
does to you, Elinor.
You wouldn't understand.
Well, perhaps you can
temper your grief a bit
for the sake of Mother?
Someone's coming.
Willoughby-- he's come back.
It's Edward.
I knew you'd come.
Oh, well, of course.
I have to keep the
countryside free from pirates.
Mr. Ferrars, such a
pleasure to see you again.
Oh, thank you,
Miss Dashwood.
Marianne.
I hope my invitation
has not expired.
Of course not.
I'm afraid I can only
stay for one night.
I hope you don't think me rude.
All the way from London
for just one night?
It's a charming home.
Are the Middletons
agreeable people?
Not at all.
We couldn't be more
unfortunately situated.
Marianne, stop.
Sir John and Mrs. Jennings
are very pleasant.
You'll meet them tonight.
Once they find out
we have a guest,
they'll want to
have us for dinner.
That's a nice ring.
I didn't think you were
wearing it at Norland.
Uh, no.
Thank you.
No, I wasn't.
It was a gift.
A gift from whom?
Marianne, it's
not our business.
No, that's quite all right.
Edward.
Yes?
Thomas has finished
preparing your room.
Would you like to see it?
Yes, of course.
Thank you.
Excuse me.
He's going to propose.
Marianne, why would
you say such a thing?
Did you see how nervous
he was, how distracted?
You've taken quite
the leap there.
Elinor, I'm telling you.
I know about these things.
He's going to propose.
Mr. Ferrars, tell me.
Is it all right if
I call you Mr. F?
Uh, Edward is fine.
Thank you.
Oh, all right, then.
Edward comes from a
prominent family in London.
His stepmother expects
great things from him.
Is that so?
Tell me, Edward.
What are your ambitions?
Oh.
My brother Robert is the
ambitious one in the family.
I have no wish to
be distinguished,
nor any idea I ever shall be.
I only wish to be
perfectly happy.
Wealth plays no part in it.
Nor should it.
Money can only bring
happiness when there
is nothing else to give it.
Well, as the one who
handles our budget,
I can certainly
say a little wealth
would increase my happiness.
Well then, if not fame and
fortune, what would grant you
this great happiness, Edward?
I wish I could say.
You are extraordinarily
talented.
I wish that were true.
It is.
Do not sell yourself short.
Elinor, I'm sorry if I've
seemed reserved during my visit.
You need not apologize.
No, I do need to.
I may not be the best
counselor in all things,
but if talking about it--
No, that's-- that's
just the thing.
I gave my word I would
not speak of it to anyone.
And I-
- I--
Your horse is ready, sir.
Thank you.
Are you sure you
can't stay any longer?
I'm afraid not.
I've been away from
London too long as it is.
Been lovely seeing
you all again.
Edward.
If these things you cannot
speak of become speakable,
you'll always have my ear.
Your friendship might be the
greatest blessing I've known.
And now I must bid you farewell.
What is it about
us that sends all
of the men in our lives riding
off to London in such haste?
Ah,
you're here at last.
I apologize for our tardiness.
Was is it Thomas?
Did he take the
wrong turn again?
We should never have let him
graduate from those pigs.
Now, allow me to present
the Miss Steeles.
This is Anne and
her sister Lucy.
We met them in town
yesterday, and it turns out
that we are distant cousins.
What a small world we live in.
And they may just
be the sweetest girls
in that little small world.
Oh.
Sir John, you flatterer.
And so anxious to meet
the Dashwood sisters.
From the moment
you were mentioned,
they've asked of nothing else.
We simply had to meet you.
There's almost never
anyone new in the area.
Do you find it dull here?
Sir John is such a
gracious host, isn't he?
Barton Park is so lovely.
I wonder how many rooms it has?
Can you imagine
how many servants?
The most servants I've
ever seen was at a dinner
of my distant cousins.
I was sat next to a ghastly
woman, who was chewing her food
so loudly, it was as if she
had no breeding whatsoever.
But he was so
dim-witted, I could
barely stand to be around him.
Not like your beau,
Miss Marianne.
You must tell us how you
managed to tame Mr. Willoughby.
There are rumors the two of
you are engaged to marry.
Are they true?
No.
I wonder where those
rumors came from?
And what of you, Elinor?
Surely, there's an
army of Devonshire men
vying for your affection.
Well, you've hit upon a great
secret there, Miss Steele.
Miss Elinor's heart is
claimed by a mystery suitor.
Now, we don't know who it could
be, although Barton Cottage did
receive a recent
visit by one Mr. F.
Edward Ferrars.
Oh.
We know Mr. Ferrars very well.
But surely--
Anne, stop.
We can hardly claim
to know him well.
We've met him once or twice.
Our uncle was his schoolmaster.
Oh.
I'm afraid Mrs. Jennings and
Sir John are just teasing you.
You see, Edward's
stepsister, Fanny,
is married to our
half-brother, John,
and that's why he visited us.
Oh, bother.
I was so sure.
Thank you.
It seems as though
I've won again.
Should we play another hand?
I must say, Marianne
plays beautifully.
I'm hopeless when it comes to
the piano or any instrument
really.
Excuse me.
I do wish I had some talent.
Miss Dashwood,
could I possibly
borrow a moment of your time?
Yes.
Yes, of course, please.
I simply must
apologize for my sister.
She speaks incessantly, even
when she has nothing to say.
Then she should get
along splendidly with Mrs.
Jennings and Sir John.
I was wondering,
since your brother is
married into the
Ferrars family, perhaps
you could do me a small favor.
You see, I would very
much like an introduction
to Fanny and Mrs. Ferrars.
It's very important that
I win their approval.
Oh, well, I've never
met Mrs. Ferrars,
and I don't think
I'd be much help
in gaining Fanny's affections.
I see.
How unfortunate.
Why, if I may ask, is
it so important to you?
Oh, perhaps I shouldn't say.
Very well.
I need them to like
me, because one day--
hopefully one day soon--
we'll be rather
intimately acquainted.
I'm engaged to enter
into the family.
Oh.
To Fanny and Edward's
brother, Robert?
I didn't know that he was--
No, not Robert.
I've never met him
before in my life.
To Edward.
You and-- you and Ed--
Ed-
- Edward Ferrars are engaged?
I know it must come
as a great surprise.
You see, it's a secret
only known to Edward,
myself, and my sister.
And we've been keeping
it these past four years.
Four years?
Yes.
He asked for my hand the
day before he finished
his schooling under my uncle.
Actually, he visited my
uncle quite recently,
I'm assuming around the same
time he came to visit you.
I was only able to
see him once, but--
but I gave him a ring.
Nothing fancy, of course,
just a promise of my love.
Tell me, Elinor.
When you saw him,
was he wearing it?
He was.
Now, Miss Dashwood, promise
me that you'll keep our secret.
Edward has told me about his
stepmother and her rather
old-fashioned views.
And I know it's going to be
difficult to win her approval
without fortune, as I am.
But I really must win
her over before she
learns of our engagement.
Will you promise, Elinor?
Will you promise not
to tell another soul?
Well, um, I certainly
didn't seek your confidence
in this matter, Miss Steele.
But your secret is safe with me.
I thank you.
I look forward to
you and I becoming
the very best of friends.
I think it best we
return to our hosts.
Oh, yes.
Of course.
Lest they wonder what it is
that we're going on about.
Elinor, can
you come down here, please?
Just a moment, Mother.
Yes.
Mrs. Jennings, what
brings you here today?
As if I need a reason.
But as it happens, I
come with an invitation.
It has been far too long since I
have been to the home in London
that I shared with
my late husband.
So I have decided
to winter there,
and I would love you and the
Steele sisters to accompany me.
To London?
Yes.
Oh, Mrs. Jennings,
that's so generous of you,
but we couldn't possibly go--
Yes, we can.
Elinor, Willoughby will be
in London and so will Ed--
other friends, I'm sure.
Go, dear.
It'll be good for you.
Then it's settled.
I'm going to pack.
Lovely.
Oh, it'll be delightful.
Have a wonderful time.
I'll buy
them some proper clothes.
Oh, my.
This is lovely.
I wonder how many
servants they have?
Please show the girls
to their apartments.
Come on.
Don't keep them waiting.
For the post.
Thank you.
I love it here.
I think that I
shall never leave.
Isn't this exciting?
Marianne.
Is that letter addressed
to Mr. Willoughby?
He'll want to
know I'm in town.
Marianne, we've
only just arrived.
I don't think it
proper for you--
Who cares for propriety when
it comes to the man I love?
You may prefer for
the things that you
want to come to you,
Elinor, but I choose
to walk a different path.
The Steele sisters
certainly like sleeping in,
not that I'm
complaining, mind you.
I swear, that Anne
never stops, does she?
Some people just go on, and on,
and on, and on, and on, and on.
Is there anything for me?
Oh, I'm afraid not, dear.
We've been here
for three days.
I've already sent two letters.
Why won't he visit, or
at least write back?
He may not be in town.
You know he loves to hunt.
I'm sure he hasn't
received your letters yet.
Perhaps this will
lift your spirits.
It seems that we have all
been invited to an assembly
next week.
Will Willoughby be there?
I'm certain he's been invited.
His aunt is a woman
of great renown.
Oh, this should be
quite the party.
I'm not sure
that I have a gown
appropriate for such an event.
Ah, well then, that sounds
like the perfect excuse
to go shopping.
Yes.
Goodness, how enchanting.
Well, I must make
the rounds and greet
all those dusty old
codgers, whose company I've
been avoiding all these years.
I shall spare you
girls the agony.
Barrington, how lovely
to see you again.
I think I'll find
someone to dance with.
I don't see
Willoughby anywhere.
I'm going to find
somewhere to sit.
These enormous heels are agony.
Elinor, I must say,
I'm grateful we're
able to have a moment alone.
I've been rather worried
since our talk at Barton Park.
I've said nothing
of your secret.
It seems to me
that our conversation
may have upset you somewhat.
Well, Miss Steele, that
is simply not the case.
Truly?
My goodness, Elinor.
John, what a surprise.
I didn't know you
were in London.
I was just
about to say the same thing.
I never would have expected
to run into you here
of all places, not that
an event such as this
is above your station or
that you'd be unwelcome here.
In fact, I think that you--
Allow me to introduce
Ms. Lucy Steele.
Hello, Miss Steele.
I'm John Dashwood.
This is my wife, Fanny, and her
stepbrother, Robert Ferrars.
My pleasure.
How do you do, Miss Steele?
Oh.
Miss Dashwood.
Lovely to meet you both.
Tell me, is your
brother, Edward, here, too?
Edward?
Yes.
Heavens no.
No, he shuns events
such as these.
However, he will be
disappointed indeed
when I tell him you were here.
He speaks of you incessantly.
"Miss Dashwood this,
Miss Dashwood that."
I think we should invite
these lovely ladies to dinner.
I'd love to get to
know you both better.
Robert, now is not the time.
It's a wonderful idea.
Let's arrange it.
Elinor, I'm sure you have a busy
schedule full of appointments,
but you must promise to come.
Of course, John.
And I always keep my promises.
Please excuse me.
Colonel Brandon,
pleasant surprise.
I must apologize for
my abrupt departure
when last we saw each other.
That's not necessary.
Was your urgent business
resolved happily?
Not just yet, I'm afraid.
Miss Dashwood, I'm very
glad I ran into you.
I was wondering if you could
clear something up for me?
I heard a rumor that
Marianne is engaged
to marry John Willoughby.
Well, with Mrs. Jennings and
the Steele sisters in town,
I suspect half of London
has heard that rumor.
As far as I know,
they are not engaged.
But I don't want to
give you false hope.
I'm certain they are
very fond of each other.
I see.
Well then, to your
sister, I wish
all the imaginable happiness,
and to Willoughby, that he
may endeavor to deserve her.
Good evening.
You look as joyful as I feel.
I wish we hadn't come.
Yes.
Well, I'm afraid that--
What?
Willoughby.
Elinor, he's here.
Marianne, I beg of you.
Please don't--
Willoughby?
Miss
Dashwood, Marianne.
Will you not take my hand?
Of course.
What is the meaning of this?
Have you not
received my letters?
I did receive your letters,
and I thank you for letting
me know you were in London.
Now, if you'll excuse me.
Elinor, bring him back.
No.
Make him come
back this instant.
It's all right.
I feel--
No.
No, no.
Let's take her outside.
I will take you home.
Marianne?
Marianne, talk to me.
Willoughby finally
wrote me back.
JOHN WILLOUGHBY
"My dear madam,
I shall always reflect
on my former acquaintance
with your family with pleasure,
but my affections have
been long engaged elsewhere.
And it is with great regret
that I return your handkerchief.
Your most obedient, humble
servant, John Willoughby."
"John Willoughby."
Oh.
Oh, Marianne.
What a deceitful,
dishonorable, cruel man.
He's not.
This cannot be how
he truly feels.
He loves me.
Marianne.
Do you want me to send
word to the Ferrars,
let them know that tonight's not
a good night to go to dinner?
Is that tonight?
No.
No, we must go.
I will not let
John and especially
Fanny know that I'm upset.
I will not give them
the satisfaction.
Mrs. Ferrars, I simply must
say thank you for allowing
us to dine with you.
And, Fanny, the most
perfect hostess.
I think you should take Lucy
here under your wing, Fanny.
Perhaps we should
even invite the Steele
sisters to stay with us.
Oh, Lucy and Anne
are guests of Mrs. Jennings.
It would be rude of us to
ask them to abandon her.
Although, we
would certainly miss
Anne's delightful witticisms.
But I suppose we could
do without her for a day
or two, perhaps a week.
There.
It's settled, then.
It's a shame Edward
couldn't join us tonight.
He's such a nice boy.
Yes, I thought he'd be here.
Did you tell him Miss
Dashwood was coming?
Can't imagine him
refusing if he knew.
I told you, Elinor, he's
quite taken with you.
Edward could not
join us because he
is currently staying
with the Mortons,
a family of great esteem.
Edward will likely soon be
engaged to young Miss Morton,
an exceptional woman,
with a 30,000-pound dowry.
Whatever youthful dalliances
Edward may have indulged in,
he has always been destined
to marry someone of status.
In spite of how he likes
to portray himself,
Edward knows his
place and would never
be with someone beneath him.
I can't stand it.
Mrs. Ferrars, you
are without a doubt
the most miserable woman I
have ever met in my life.
Elinor, don't let her
make you miserable, too.
Miss Dashwood,
Colonel Brandon.
Oh, Colonel Brandon.
Thank you for your
assistance at the ball.
I know Marianne would
want to thank you,
too, but I'm afraid she's--
It is you I wish
to speak with.
Oh, please.
I do not know if coming here
was the right thing to do,
but I have information that
may be useful to your sister.
Do you remember,
back at Barton Park,
I told you I once knew a
girl very much like Marianne?
Yes, I remember.
Her name was Eliza.
And she was a ward of my family.
The two of us fell
deeply in love.
My father, however,
did not approve,
but he and I came
to an agreement,
or so I was led to believe.
If I were to distinguish
myself in the military,
he would put aside
his objections
and allow us to marry.
So I enlisted, fighting
not only for my country
but for the woman I loved.
I held up my end of the bargain,
but when I returned to England,
I learned that my father
had cast Eliza out.
It took years, but I
found her, penniless
and dying of consumption
in a pauper's hospital.
She had a daughter.
When Eliza passed, I took
the girl in as my ward.
Once she'd reached
a proper age, I sent
her to school here in London.
But a year ago,
she went missing.
No one knew what
had become of her.
The letter I received
the day of the picnic
told me that she had been
found, and she was with child.
It took some convincing,
but eventually
she told me the man's name.
You can likely guess it.
Willoughby?
Oh.
I apologize if this
knowledge is a burden,
but you will know better
than I what, if any of it,
may be useful to Marianne.
Good day.
Colonel.
You are truly an honorable man.
Elinor, I just had to
come and see my dear friend.
So your stay with the
Ferrars is going well?
Oh, quite well,
quite well indeed.
Fanny's grown very fond of me.
And Robert, he's-- well,
he's just so charming.
As for Mrs. Ferrars,
she's certainly
very protective of
her stepsons, but I
believe she's warming to me.
What of Miss Morton, she
of the 30,000-pound dowry?
Yes.
Well, I'm sure Edward is
making her believe he's going
to marry this Miss Morton.
It'll never happen.
If only you could
see us together,
Elinor, you would know
he's not capable of loving
anyone but me.
Miss Dashwood.
Elinor, you must forgive me.
I fear you must think
I've been avoiding you.
But--
Mr. Ferrars, I--
I believe you know
Miss Lucy Steele.
Uh-
- I--
yes.
Yes, of course.
How do you do, Miss Steele?
Mr. Ferrars.
Well, isn't this a
lovely turn of events?
Yes, quite lovely.
Um--
Edward.
Yeah-- oh.
Miss Marianne, how
good to see you.
I knew you'd come.
You tried to stay away, but
you just can't seem to do it,
can you?
I wonder why that is?
Marianne.
Oh, I don't think
it's me, Elinor.
Let's just be honest with
our feelings for once.
You cherish honesty,
don't you, Edward?
Yes, I do, quite.
I also cherish punctuality,
which is why I must leave.
I am due to return
to my stepmother.
Oh, well, as I'm currently
staying at your stepmother's,
perhaps you could escort me.
You-- you are?
Well, isn't that just a--
yes, of course,
I will take you.
Marianne.
Elinor, I-- I do hope I
shall see you again soon.
Elinor?
The most beautiful
gown I'd seen in my life--
of course, we cannot afford
it, but my aunt said she
could make me one just like it.
Well, needless to
say, she wasn't quite
the modess she thought she was.
Edward, you've returned.
My dear brother-in-law, how
was your stay with the Mortons?
It was fine.
Thank you.
Fine?
That's all you have to say?
They
were lovely hosts.
I visited Mrs.
Jennings' home to pay
my respects to the Dashwoods.
And who did I find
there but Miss Lucy
Steele, who informed
me that she has
been staying here in our home.
Imagine my surprise.
I'll wager you
hardly recognized her.
It's been so long since your
schooling under her uncle.
Oh, it hasn't been long
since we've seen him.
Edward visited us just--
Anne.
What do you mean?
When did Edward last visit you?
I-
- I-- that is--
I'm sorry.
What is she talking
about, Edward?
Well, I suppose this was
bound to come out at some point.
Lucy and I are engaged.
And we have been
these past four years.
Engaged?
You're engaged to this
peasant, and for four years?
I'm sorry.
I didn't mean--
Sorry?
You're sorry for keeping the
secret or for exposing it?
We welcomed you into our home.
Fanny, please.
Oh, not a word.
You don't have one
ounce of sense.
You don't truly believe that
this girl loves you, do you?
She's only after your wealth.
I do love him.
Enough.
Fanny, sit.
This is greatly disappointing.
You two deceitful girls
will leave this instant.
Do not bother to
pack your things.
We will send them to
the Jennings' estate.
Or perhaps we shall burn them.
Stop it, both of you.
You fault these young ladies
for not being honest with you?
Well, what choice
did you give them?
I beg your pardon?
Stepmother, Fanny, you make no
effort to conceal your feelings
towards those who do
not have our wealth,
wealth we did not
earn, by the way,
but which was handed to us.
Can you not find
it in your hearts
to judge people based
on their character
and not on the size of
their bank accounts?
If
you are finished,
allow me to explain
the state of things.
You will marry Miss Morton as
soon as it can be arranged,
and you will break
this ridiculous farce
of an engagement immediately.
I will do neither
of those things.
Edward.
Four years ago, I gave
my word to Miss Steele,
and I will not break
it, not for you,
Fanny, not for you,
stepmother, not for--
not for anyone.
Very well.
You two shall be married.
And you, Edward,
shall be disinherited.
I will amend my will and
leave everything to Robert.
You will get nothing.
This I swear.
So be it.
Well, what are
you waiting for?
Mrs. Jennings is having
the carriage prepared.
The Steele sisters are
leaving immediately.
Apparently, Lucy and Edward had
some sort of secret engagement.
These men, how
alike they all are,
keeping such secrets from the
women who truly love them.
Do you not agree?
That Edward and
Willoughby are the same?
No.
No, I do not.
You knew?
I did.
Lucy told me herself
the day we met them.
She made me promise--
At Barton Park?
That was ages ago.
Oh, Elinor, you loved Edward
so, yet you showed no sign.
How have you borne
this burden so easily?
Easily?
Do you really think this
has been easy for me?
John was not the only one
who made a promise to Father.
He also made me promise to
hold our family together.
And I, unlike our brother, have
done everything in my power
to keep that promise.
Since the very moment we were
cast out of Norland Park,
I have buried my every
desire, ignored my every wish
while you, Marianne,
have thought of nothing,
nothing but yourself.
Do I love Edward?
Yes, I love him.
There, I've said it.
But I also love you, Marianne.
And I love Mother,
and I love Meg.
And I knew this knowledge
would break your heart just
as it broke mine, so I endured.
I endured this secret
that was forced
upon me by the very person
who caused my heartbreak.
I can assure you,
Marianne, this is not easy.
Nothing has been easy.
Oh, Elinor.
Thank you.
Oh, dear.
What is it?
Nothing.
It just--
What is it?
It's a wedding announcement.
Um, it appears that
Mr. Willoughby is
now officially a married man.
Marianne.
I've never seen her like this.
Oh.
I wish there were a way
to get her back to Mother.
Oh, I blame myself.
I thought it best
to send the Steele
girls back as soon as possible.
It'll be days before
their carriage returns.
I may have an idea.
Colonel Brandon.
I'm in your debt.
It is so kind of to cut your
visit short for our benefit.
My business here is concluded.
Elinor, heard
you were leaving,
and I just had to
come and say goodbye.
John, do you know
Colonel Brandon?
No, I haven't
had the pleasure.
Pleasure is
mine, Mr. Dashwood.
The Colonel's been
kind enough to take
us back to Barton Cottage.
Oh.
Well then, you have my thanks.
You have such a long
journey ahead of you.
I must insist that
you stop and stay
a few nights at Norland Park.
Oh, that's a
surprising-but-generous offer.
Why should it surprise you?
Never mind.
That wasn't a sincere
question, was it?
I'm many things, Elinor,
but I'm not stupid.
I must apologize to you for
the way you've been treated.
I should have stood
up for you more,
and that is something that I--
John, we are all trying to
make our way in the world.
Some of us are guided by
what we think of ourselves,
some by what others say.
I will accept your generous
offer to stay at Norland Park.
That, at least, pleases me.
I shall send word.
Safe journey, Elinor.
You have a way of speaking
to others in a manner they need
to be spoken to,
which makes me think
you are the right person to--
before we depart for Devonshire,
I would ask you to make
someone an offer on my behalf.
But I don't understand.
Why would Colonel Brandon
offer me a home on his estate?
The Colonel has
something of a soft spot
for couples kept apart
due to the disapproval
of their families.
But I've never
even met the man.
He's heard many
good things about you
from me, from Marianne,
from my mother.
So this is a
favor to you, then.
He knows that I--
that, um, we care for you.
But he would not have made this
offer if he did not think you
honorable on your own merits.
I am unworthy of
such generosity,
yours and the Colonel's.
I would not blame you if you did
not wish me to be happy at all.
Edward, listen to me.
You and Lucy were engaged long
before you and I even met.
In truth, I find it
admirable that you would keep
your commitment to her,
even under the threat
of disinheritance.
You do deserve to be happy.
Believe me.
I still think very highly
of you, and I always will.
I've said it before.
Your friendship is
a true blessing.
It is an honor to know
you, Elinor Dashwood.
Marianne, we're here.
Isn't it beautiful, Marianne?
Yes.
And its beauty only reminds
me of how far we've fallen.
Marianne?
Elinor, what's wrong?
I can't find Marianne.
I don't know where
she could have
gotten off to in this rain.
I will find her.
I promise.
Please do.
Marianne, what on Earth
are you doing out here?
What does it matter?
Everything I've ever had
has been taken from me.
There's nothing left.
She has a very high fever
and congestion in her lungs.
And it seems she's developed
a serious infection,
quite serious indeed.
I'm sorry, but there's
nothing more I can do.
What do you mean?
There has to be more you can do.
Surely, you can--
Miss Dashwood,
if what you've told
me is true, that she's barely
eaten or slept in days,
then her body simply does
not have the strength
to fight the infection off.
What are you saying?
I'm sorry.
I have other patients
that require my attention,
but I promise I will be
back as soon as I'm able.
What can I do?
Our mother, Colonel,
I hate to ask but--
You do not have to.
I shall leave immediately.
I will not rest
until I've collected
your mother and sister
and brought them here.
I don't know if you can
hear me, but I ask you.
I beg you.
Do not let yourself
suffer anymore.
Use that great big heart of
yours to fight off this fever.
Marianne?
Elinor.
You have a great big
heart, too, Elinor.
I was wrong, you know,
about Edward and Willoughby
being alike.
Both of them were threatened
with disinheritance,
but they reacted
very differently.
Yes, well, the outcome is
still the same, isn't it?
Both of us alone.
But we're not alone.
That must be Colonel
Brandon, with Mother and Meg.
I'm so glad she's
feeling better.
Much better.
Oh, thank goodness.
Is she awake yet?
Her fever broke yesterday,
and she's continued to improve.
She'll be happy to see you.
Perhaps I should wait.
You will not.
Marianne is anxious
to thank you.
Marianne, I
missed you so much.
It's so
good to see you, Darling.
It's good to see
you, too, Mama.
Colonel, thank you.
May we go back to
Barton Cottage?
You don't want to rest
here at Norland a bit longer?
There's places--
I wish to go home.
He truly is a man
of honor, isn't he--
Colonel Brandon?
He certainly is.
The way he rushed
us to your side,
I don't think the man
slept for three days.
Yes, that was sweet.
But I was talking
about his past.
He stayed true to the woman
he loved despite his father's
disapproval.
He went to war for her.
He sought her out after she
was cast out by his family.
He even took on the child
she had by another man.
I could not have been
more wrong about him.
When we first met, I didn't
think him romantic at all.
As it turns out, he was the most
romantic man I've ever known.
That's the last of it.
Are you sure you don't
want to stay for dinner?
I would love to,
but I'm afraid I
must get back to Delaford.
I've been gone for
quite a while now.
Perhaps-- perhaps I could
come and see Delaford one day?
Nothing would make me happier.
Nice to see that smile again.
It's nice to be home.
Colonel Brandon's promised to
invite me to Delaford soon.
I'll wager he has.
Can I come?
Not on Marianne's first visit.
Welcome back, ma'am.
Oh, I nearly forgot.
I was running errands in town,
preparing for your return,
and I happened to run into
acquaintances of yours.
Oh?
Yes.
The newly-wedded Mr. and Mrs.
Ferrars send their regards.
Welcome to Delaford.
It's beautiful.
Your whole estate is beautiful.
Edward's cottage
is just down there.
I'm sure he and Lucy
will be very happy here.
I understand that
Mr. Willoughby's aunt
has forgiven him and
assured him that he shall
receive his full inheritance.
Oh.
Yes.
If he'd only been
patient, he could
have had it all, his fortune
and the woman he loves.
Even if that were so,
he wouldn't have deserved
the love of that woman.
Besides, her affections
lie elsewhere now.
And I said yes.
Oh, Marianne.
He's assured me
he'll visit later today
to ask for your blessing.
Oh, he will have it.
We're going to miss you.
Delaford's very close.
We'll see each other
all of the time.
But Edward's at Delaford.
Come, dear.
We have a wedding to plan.
I-- Edward and Lucy's
marriage is what we expected.
I told myself not to hope
for anything different.
But it was too
late, wasn't it?
Hope had already entered.
There's no sense in it now.
It's done.
He's married.
I'll be calm.
I'll be mistress of myself.
Be calm.
Mother, whose horse--
Miss Dashwood.
Mr. Ferrars.
Are you visiting us from
your new home in Delaford?
Yes, I arrived just yesterday.
It's a lovely cottage.
And how is Mrs. Ferrars?
My stepmother is well.
Thank you.
Perhaps I should say
she's in good health.
I suppose she'll never be well.
No, I mean Mrs.
Edward Ferrars.
Oh.
You haven't heard?
From the way that gossip seems
to travel in our circles,
I had assumed that--
once my inheritance
went to my brother,
it seemed as though Miss
Lucy Steele's affections
went that way as well.
And so Lucy is now
Mrs. Robert Ferrars.
Apparently, my stepmother's
prejudices against Lucy
were outweighed by her desire
to punish and humiliate me.
So-- so--
so you're-- you're--
you're not married?
No.
Elinor.
I would not blame you if
you wanted me to leave,
but please allow me--
my engagement to Lucy
was a folly of youth.
I never felt for her or for
anyone what I feel for you.
And I don't care what
my stepsister thinks,
or my stepmother, or anyone.
I will not marry for fortune,
nor out of obligation.
I want to marry for love.
And I love you, Elinor.
I know my own happiness now.
And in truth, I have
known it for some time.
It lies with you, Elinor.
I love you with all my heart.
I have been in love
with you since--
since we first met at Norland.
I tried to deny it out
of some misguided sense
of duty or honor.
But-- but it would
not be denied.
My love for you
has never wavered.
And I will continue to love
you until the day I die.
I came here today
with one errand
in mind, which I
will now perform.
Oh.
Elinor Dashwood, will
you do me the great honor
of becoming my wife?
Yes.
Yes, I'll marry you.
I pronounce they
be man and wife together.